[IMP] sales: updated entire invoicing based on milestones doc (#5574)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/invoicing/milestone.rst

Invoice project milestones
==========================

Invoicing based on project milestones can be used for expensive or large-scale projects. The series
of milestones in a project represent a clear sequence of work that will inevitably result in the

> completion of a project and/or contract.

Reviewer: Don't need the grammatical conjunction here.
The main subject of this section is projects so stick with that 😉 
```suggestion
completion of a project.
```

This method of invoicing ensures the company gets a consistent flow of money throughout the lifetime
of the project. Customers can closely monitor every phase of the project's development as it
happens, in addition to paying a large bill in several installments, instead of all at once.

Create milestone products
=========================

In Odoo, each milestone of a project is considered as an individual product.

> To create and/or configure products to work like this, first navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app

Reviewer: Because the instruction is explicitly navigational, the conjunction we want here is "and" because it includes the creation AND configuration of products to work as milestones.

```suggestion
To create and configure products to work like this, first navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app
```

To create and/or configure products to work like this, first navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app
--> Products --> Products`. Then, click on a product, or create a new one by clicking
:guilabel:`New`.

The option to invoice based on milestones is only available for certain product types.

On the product form, under the :guilabel:`General Information` tab, the :guilabel:`Product Type`
field *must* be set on any of the following options: :guilabel:`Service`, :guilabel:`Event Ticket`,
:guilabel:`Event Booth`, or :guilabel:`Course`.

.. image:: milestone/product-type-field.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The invoicing policy field drop-down menu with options on product form.

With any of those :guilabel:`Product Type` options selected, choose :guilabel:`Based on Milestones`
from the :guilabel:`Invoicing Policy` drop-down menu.

.. image:: milestone/invoicing-policy-field.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The invoicing policy field drop-down menu with options on product form.

Beneath that is the :guilabel:`Create on Order` field.

To ensure workflows are as seamless as possible, it is recommended that an option in the
:guilabel:`Create on Order` field is selected.

> .. note::
>     Leaving it on the default :guilabel:`Nothing` option won't negatively affect the desired
>     workflow. However, a project *must* then be created directly from a sales order form with that
>     specific product. Once a project is created *then* milestones and tasks can be created and
>     configured.

Reviewer 2: Remove extra spaces in note
```suggestion
.. note::
   Leaving it on the default :guilabel:`Nothing` option won't negatively affect the desired
   workflow. However, a project *must* then be created directly from a sales order form with that
   specific product. Once a project is created *then* milestones and tasks can be created and
   configured.
```

When the :guilabel:`Create on Order` default option of :guilabel:`Nothing` is clicked, a drop-down
menu is revealed with the following options:

- :guilabel:`Task`: Odoo creates a task related to this milestone product in the *Projects* app when
  this specific product is ordered.

> - :guilabel:`Project & Task`: Odoo creates a project and task related to this milestone product in

Reviewer 2: Escape ampersand
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Project \& Task`: Odoo creates a project and task related to this milestone product in
```

  the *Projects* app when this specific product is ordered.
- :guilabel:`Project`: Odoo creates a project related to this milestone product in the *Projects*
  app when this specific product is ordered.

When :guilabel:`Task` is selected, a :guilabel:`Project` field appears. In this field, select to
which existing project in the *Projects* app this created task should be connected.

.. image:: milestone/task-option-project-field.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Project field appears when the Task option is selected in Create on Order field.

> When :guilabel:`Project & Task` or :guilabel:`Project` is selected, two new fields appear:

Reviewer 2: Escape ampersand
```suggestion
When :guilabel:`Project \& Task` or :guilabel:`Project` is selected, two new fields appear:
```

The :guilabel:`Project Template` field provides template options to use for the project that will be
created when this specific product is ordered.

The :guilabel:`Workspace Template` field provides template options to use for the workspace (for the
*Documents* app, not the *Projects* app) that will be automatically generated for the project when
this specific product is ordered.

.. tip::
   For organizational purposes, click the :guilabel:`Sales` tab on the product form, and enter a
   custom 'Milestone' related descriptor in the :guilabel:`Sales Description` field. This
   information appears in the :guilabel:`Description` column on the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of
   the sales order.

   Or, directly edit/modify the :guilabel:`Description` field on the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of
   the sales order.

   This is *not* a requirement.

Invoice milestones
==================

.. note::
   The following flow features a trio of milestone products that have :guilabel:`Service` set as
   their :guilabel:`Product Type`, and :guilabel:`Task` set on their :guilabel:`Create on Order`
   field.

>     .. image:: milestone/settings-for-workflow.png
>        :align: center
>        :alt: Product with Service "Product Type" and "Task" in the Create on Order field on form.
> 
>     Those tasks are then attached to a pre-existing :guilabel:`Project`, which, in this case, is
>     titled, :guilabel:`Rebranding Projects`.

Reviewer 2: Alignment in note admonition 
```suggestion
   .. image:: milestone/settings-for-workflow.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Product with Service "Product Type" and "Task" in the Create on Order field on form.

   Those tasks are then attached to a pre-existing :guilabel:`Project`, which, in this case, is
   titled, :guilabel:`Rebranding Projects`.
```

To invoice milestones, create a sales order with the milestone product(s). To do that, go to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> New`. Doing so reveals a blank quotation form.

From this quotation form, add a :guilabel:`Customer`. Then, click :guilabel:`Add a product` in the
:guilabel:`Order Lines` tab. Next, add the milestone product(s) to the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab.

Once the corresponding milestone product(s) have been added, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm
the order, which turns the quotation into a sales order.

When the order is confirmed, new smart buttons appear at the top of the sales order based on what
was selected in the :guilabel:`Create on Order` field on the product form.

> .. image:: milestone/confirmed-sales-order-milestone.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Confirmed sales order with milestone products in the order lines tab.

Reviewer 2: Ideally this image should be cropped, there is no need to show the whole UI here and the smartbuttons are illegible. Could even remove this image :)
```suggestion
```

the invoice has been paid.

.. image:: milestone/in-payment-invoice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An invoice with a milestone product that has been paid with an In Payment banner.

Then, return to the sales order, via the breadcrumb links. Back on the sales order, in the
:guilabel:`Order Lines` tab, the reached milestone that's been invoiced and paid for, now has its
:guilabel:`Invoiced` column filled.

.. image:: milestone/invoiced-column-filled-milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Invoiced column of a milestone product that's been paid for is filled.

There is also a new :guilabel:`Invoices` smart button at the top of the sales order. Clicking that
reveals all the invoices that are connected to this sales order.

.. image:: milestone/invoices-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The invoices smart button that appears at the top of a sales order with milestones.

Simply repeat the above process for each milestone as it is worked on, and subsequently, completed.

Continue that process until the entire project has been completed, each milestone has been invoiced,
and the entire order has been paid for in full.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/invoicing/time_materials`
>    - :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/invoicing/proforma`
>    - :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/invoicing/invoicing_policy`

Reviewer 2: Update doc paths to be relative
```suggestion
   - :doc:`time_materials`
   - :doc:`proforma`
   - :doc:`invoicing_policy`
```

  the *Projects* app when this specific product is ordered.
- :guilabel:`Project`: Odoo creates a project related to this milestone product in the *Projects*
  app when this specific product is ordered.

When :guilabel:`Task` is selected, a :guilabel:`Project` field appears. In this field, select to
which existing project in the *Projects* app this created task should be connected.

.. image:: milestone/task-option-project-field.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Project field appears when the Task option is selected in Create on Order field.

When :guilabel:`Project & Task` or :guilabel:`Project` is selected, two new fields appear:
:guilabel:`Project Template` and :guilabel:`Workspace Template`.

.. image:: milestone/project-task-option-project-workspace-fields.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Project template and workspace template fields that appear on milestone product.

The :guilabel:`Project Template` field provides template options to use for the project that will be
created when this specific product is ordered.

The :guilabel:`Workspace Template` field provides template options to use for the workspace that

> will be automatically generated for the project when this specific product is ordered.

Reviewer 3: I would specify that the Workspace template is for the Documents app and not the Projects app.

   the sales order.

   This is *not* a requirement.

Invoice milestones
==================

.. note::
   The following flow features a trio of milestone products that have :guilabel:`Service` set as
   their :guilabel:`Product Type`, and :guilabel:`Task` set on their :guilabel:`Create on Order`
   field.

    .. image:: milestone/settings-for-workflow.png
       :align: center
       :alt: Product with Service "Product Type" and "Task" in the Create on Order field on form.

    Those tasks are then attached to a pre-existing :guilabel:`Project`, which, in this case, is
    titled, :guilabel:`Rebranding Projects`.

To invoice milestones, create a sales order with the milestone product(s). To do that, go to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> New`. Doing so reveals a blank quotation form.

From this quotation form, add a :guilabel:`Customer`. Then, click :guilabel:`Add a product` in the
:guilabel:`Order Lines` tab. Next, add the milestone product(s) to the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab.

Once the corresponding milestone product(s) have been added, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm
the order, which turns the quotation into a sales order.

> When the order is confirmed, because a product that is configured to be invoiced on milestones, new

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the order is confirmed, new
```

smart buttons appear at the top of the sales order based on what was selected in the
:guilabel:`Create on Order` field on the product form.

.. image:: milestone/confirmed-sales-order-milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Confirmed sales order with milestone products in the order lines tab.

From the sales order, click the :guilabel:`Milestones` smart button. Doing so reveals a blank

> :guilabel:`Milestones` page. Click :guilabel:`New` to add milestones.

Reviewer 3: When I click on the smart button, the milestone page is not blank, it populated a list milestones from the SO, which I think is how it should work, right? It looks like you can then add others even from different SOs but I don't think the page should be blank?

Reviewer 4: I might have missed a step, since I created these milestone products on an empty/new Project, but after clicking the "Milestone" smart button, the page *was* blank, and not pre-populated with milestones. If there's additional setup for this, maybe it would be helpful for us to include. Do we have another doc that explains how to create milestones for a project, so it'll be populated at this time? It would be useful to link it here (:

Author: I think you're right @Felicious 👍 When I was writing this doc, and going through the flow, I was working off an empty/new Project, and the page was, indeed, blank when the Milestone button was hit. So, perhaps JERO used a populated runbot during that review. So, that said, I think I'll revert it back to "blank" instead of "populated" -- so the reader following along, and *also* working off a new Project, won't be confused when they see a blank page.  Thanks for pointing this out! 👍

.. image:: milestone/adding-milestones.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adding milestones to a sales order with milestone products.

Enter a :guilabel:`Name` for the milestone. Next, apply it to the corresponding :guilabel:`Sales
Order Item`. Lastly, assign a :guilabel:`Deadline` to the milestone, if desired.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Quantity` field is not editable.

Repeat that process for all milestone sales order items.

Then, return to the sales order, via the breadcrumbs. From the sales order, click the
:guilabel:`Tasks` smart button. Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Tasks` page with a task for each sales
order item with that option designated in the :guilabel:`Create on Order` field.

.. image:: milestone/tasks-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Sample tasks page accessed via the smart button from a sales order with milestone products.

To assign a configured milestone to its task, click the desired task, which reveals the task form.
On the task form, select the appropriate milestone to which this task should be connected, in the

> :guilabel:`Milestone` field.

Reviewer 3: Same as above, this should happen automatically, right?

the :guilabel:`Reached` column for that particular task.

.. image:: milestone/reached-milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: What it looks like to mark a milestone as reached via the milestone smart button.

Next, return to the sales order -- either by clicking :guilabel:`View Sales Order` on the
:guilabel:`Milestones` page, or via the breadcrumb links.

Back on the sales order, the line item for the milestone that's been reached has its
:guilabel:`Delivered` filled. That's because the milestone has been reached, and therefore
delivered.

.. image:: milestone/delivered-milestone-product-sales-order.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A milestone product that's been reached marked as delivered on the sales order in Odoo.

Click :guilabel:`Create Invoice` in the upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Create
invoices` pop-up window.

.. image:: milestone/create-invoices-pop-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The create invoices pop-up window that appears when create invoice button is clicked.

On the :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up window, leave the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` option on the

> default :guilabel:`Regular Invoice` option, and click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Invoice` button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
default :guilabel:`Regular Invoice` selection, and click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Invoice` button.
```

*only* showing that reached milestone in the :guilabel:`Invoice Lines` tab.

.. image:: milestone/invoice-draft-milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A customer invoice draft showing only the milestone product that's been reached.

From this invoice page, click the :guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the invoice. Then, when the
customer has paid for this milestone, click :guilabel:`Register Payment`.

When :guilabel:`Register Payment` is clicked, a :guilabel:`Register Payment` pop-up window appears.

.. image:: milestone/register-payment-pop-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Register Payment pop-up window that appears when Register Payment is clicked.

On this pop-up window, confirm the accuracy of the auto-populated fields, then click
:guilabel:`Create Payment`.

When clicked, the pop-up window disappears, and Odoo returns to the invoice for that milestone,
which now has a green :guilabel:`In Payment` banner in the upper-right corner. This banner signifies
the invoice has been paid.

.. image:: milestone/in-payment-invoice.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An invoice with a milestone product that has been paid with an In Payment banner.

> Then, return to the sales order, via the breadcrumbs links. Back on the sales order, in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, return to the sales order, via the breadcrumb links. Back on the sales order, in the
```

   :alt: The Project template and workspace template fields that appear on milestone product.

The :guilabel:`Project Template` field provides template options to use for the project that will be
created when this specific product is ordered.

The :guilabel:`Workspace Template` field (for the *Documents* app, not the *Projects* app) provides
template options to use for the workspace that will be automatically generated for the project when
this specific product is ordered.

.. tip::
   For organizational purposes, click the :guilabel:`Sales` tab on the product form, and enter a
   custom 'Milestone' related descriptor in the :guilabel:`Sales Description` field. This
   information appears in the :guilabel:`Description` column on the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of
   the sales order.

   Or, directly edit/modify the :guilabel:`Description` field on the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of
   the sales order.

   This is *not* a requirement.

Invoice milestones
==================

.. note::
   The following flow features a trio of milestone products that have :guilabel:`Service` set as
   their :guilabel:`Product Type`, and :guilabel:`Task` set on their :guilabel:`Create on Order`

>    field.

Reviewer 4: while creating the product to test your flow, I wasn't too sure which boxes to tick. I'm not sure if it's necessary to specify this information here-- I just wanted to point out everything I observed while following your doc (:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/3766e5c2-3b44-4526-ac16-f0a7f1e3f64d)

Author: As always, I sincerely appreciate your attention to detail. If memory serves, I don't believe it's required to tick any of these boxes, specifically. So, I think for the sake of simplicity, I'll just omit such a sentence to avoid any confusion. But, once again, thanks for pointing this out. Also, if you *do* think it's important to mention this, just let me know, and I'll add it in right away. Thanks! 👍

From this quotation form, add a :guilabel:`Customer`. Then, click :guilabel:`Add a product` in the
:guilabel:`Order Lines` tab. Next, add the milestone product(s) to the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab.

Once the corresponding milestone product(s) have been added, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm
the order, which turns the quotation into a sales order.

When the order is confirmed, new smart buttons appear at the top of the sales order based on what
was selected in the :guilabel:`Create on Order` field on the product form.

.. image:: milestone/confirmed-sales-order-milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Confirmed sales order with milestone products in the order lines tab.

From the sales order, click the :guilabel:`Milestones` smart button. Doing so reveals a populated
:guilabel:`Milestones` page. Click :guilabel:`New` to add milestones.

.. image:: milestone/adding-milestones.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adding milestones to a sales order with milestone products.

Enter a :guilabel:`Name` for the milestone. Next, apply it to the corresponding :guilabel:`Sales
Order Item`. Lastly, assign a :guilabel:`Deadline` to the milestone, if desired.

.. note::

>    The :guilabel:`Quantity` field is not editable.

Reviewer 4: Again, like my previous comment, but I might have missed a step so my flow is all wonky now, but I manually created a new milestone using the New button, and i was able to edit the Quantity field (16.3 runbot)
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/f34b6a4f-918f-4160-81aa-85f9b363af14)

Edited it again:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/3034fd43-8995-4717-9e6a-ecf24f0b5253)

Author: Thanks for pointing this out! For the sake of avoiding any confusion, I'll go ahead and remove this minor note admonition. I really appreciate the in-depth feedback, @Felicious

Then, return to the sales order, via the breadcrumbs. From the sales order, click the
:guilabel:`Tasks` smart button. Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Tasks` page with a task for each sales
order item with that option designated in the :guilabel:`Create on Order` field.

.. image:: milestone/tasks-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Sample tasks page accessed via the smart button from a sales order with milestone products.

To manually assign a configured milestone to a task, click the desired task, which reveals the task
form. On the task form, select the appropriate milestone to which this task should be connected, in
the :guilabel:`Milestone` field.

.. image:: milestone/milestone-field-on-task-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The milestone field on the task form when dealing with milestone products in Odoo Sales.

Repeat this process for all milestone tasks.

With those tasks properly configured, employees will log in their progress as they work on the task,
in addition to adding any notes related to the task.

Then, when that task is complete, that means that milestone has been reached. At that point, it is
time to invoice that milestone.

> To do that, first return to the sales order -- either via the breadcrumb links, or by navigating to

Reviewer 4: Totally optional formatting suggestion! It's just that Zac once replaced my double hypen (--) with an em dash (—), so I'll just do that here (:
```suggestion
To do that, first return to the sales order — either via the breadcrumb links, or by navigating to
```

:menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders` and picking the appropriate sales order.

Back on the sales order form, click the :guilabel:`Milestones` smart button, and check the box in
the :guilabel:`Reached` column for that particular task.

.. image:: milestone/reached-milestone.png
   :align: center
   :alt: What it looks like to mark a milestone as reached via the milestone smart button.

> Next, return to the sales order -- either by clicking :guilabel:`View Sales Order` on the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Next, return to the sales order — either by clicking :guilabel:`View Sales Order` on the
```

:guilabel:`Milestones` page, or via the breadcrumb links.

> Back on the sales order, the line item for the milestone that's been reached has its
> :guilabel:`Delivered` filled. That's because the milestone has been reached, and therefore
> delivered.

Reviewer 4: Not sure if this suggestion is a bit more vague than your previous sentence, but I was slightly confused by the wording "Delivered filled". Hope this rewording is helpful to you! Feel free to cherry-pick your favorite parts from your original and the reworded versions!

```suggestion
Back on the sales order, the milestone line item is marked as :guilabel:`Delivered` filled. That's
because the milestone has been reached.
```

Author: Great catch. I forgot to add the word "column" after "Delivered." I made that adjustment, and it reads much smoother now. Thanks again for pointing that out. 👍
